Topic: Baraitser-Winter syndrome
Question: What are the symptoms of Baraitser-Winter syndrome ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Baraitser-Winter syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Baraitser-Winter syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Duplication of phalanx of hallux 5% Highly arched eyebrow 5% Microphthalmia 5% Oral cleft 5% Retrognathia 5% Ventriculomegaly 5% Abnormality of metabolism/homeostasis - Agenesis of corpus callosum - Anteverted nares - Aortic valve stenosis - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Bicuspid aortic valve - Chorioretinal coloboma - Cryptorchidism - Hypertelorism - Intellectual disability - Iris coloboma - Lissencephaly - Long palpebral fissure - Long philtrum - Low posterior hairline - Low-set ears - Microcephaly - Micropenis - Muscular hypotonia - Overfolded helix - Pachygyria - Patent ductus arteriosus - Pointed chin - Postnatal growth retardation - Prominent epicanthal folds - Ptosis - Seizures - Sensorineural hearing impairment - Short neck - Short nose - Short stature - Trigonocephaly - Wide mouth - Wide nasal bridge - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
Source: 0000621.xml
