Topic: Amish lethal microcephaly
Question: What are the symptoms of Amish lethal microcephaly ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Amish lethal microcephaly? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Amish lethal microcephaly. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the cerebellum 90% Behavioral abnormality 90% Cognitive impairment 90% Microcephaly 90% Optic atrophy 90% Sloping forehead 90% Abnormality of neuronal migration 50% Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the corpus callosum 50% Hypertonia 50% Muscular hypotonia 50% Reduced bone mineral density 50% Spina bifida 50% Ventriculomegaly 50% Abnormality of the soft palate 7.5% Decreased skull ossification 7.5% Hepatomegaly 7.5% Limitation of joint mobility 7.5% Prenatal movement abnormality 7.5% Seizures 7.5% Autosomal recessive inheritance - Cerebellar hypoplasia - Congenital onset - Flexion contracture - Irritability - Lactic acidosis - Limb hypertonia - Muscular hypotonia of the trunk - Partial agenesis of the corpus callosum - Progressive microcephaly - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
Source: 0000292.xml
