Topic: Feingold syndrome
Question: What are the symptoms of Feingold syndrome ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Feingold syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Feingold syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Blepharophimosis 90% Brachydactyly syndrome 90% Clinodactyly of the 5th finger 90% Microcephaly 90% 4-5 toe syndactyly 86% 2-3 toe syndactyly 56% Anteverted nares 50% Cognitive impairment 50% Depressed nasal bridge 50% External ear malformation 50% Hallux valgus 50% Short stature 50% Toe syndactyly 50% Abnormal form of the vertebral bodies 7.5% Abnormality of the spleen 7.5% Annular pancreas 7.5% Duodenal stenosis 7.5% Oral cleft 7.5% Patent ductus arteriosus 7.5% Sensorineural hearing impairment 7.5% Tracheoesophageal fistula 7.5% Accessory spleen - Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the middle phalanx of the 2nd finger - Aplasia/Hypoplasia of the middle phalanx of the 5th finger - Asplenia - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Decreased fetal movement - Depressed nasal tip - Duodenal atresia - Epicanthus - Esophageal atresia - Facial asymmetry - Hearing impairment - High palate - Intellectual disability - Low-set ears - Polyhydramnios - Polysplenia - Posteriorly rotated ears - Prominent occiput - Short palpebral fissure - Short toe - Small anterior fontanelle - Specific learning disability - Thick vermilion border - Triangular face - Upslanted palpebral fissure - Vocal cord paralysis - Wide nasal bridge - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
Source: 0002325.xml
