Topic: Inclusion body myopathy with early-onset Paget disease and frontotemporal dementia
Question: What are the symptoms of Inclusion body myopathy with early-onset Paget disease and frontotemporal dementia ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Inclusion body myopathy with early-onset Paget disease and frontotemporal dementia? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Inclusion body myopathy with early-onset Paget disease and frontotemporal dementia. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Facial palsy 5% Abnormality of pelvic girdle bone morphology - Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis - Autosomal dominant inheritance - Back pain - Difficulty climbing stairs - Distal amyotrophy - Dysphasia - Dystonia - Elevated alkaline phosphatase of bone origin - Elevated serum creatine phosphokinase - Frontal cortical atrophy - Frontotemporal dementia - Gait disturbance - Limb muscle weakness - Lumbar hyperlordosis - Myopathy - Pelvic girdle amyotrophy - Pelvic girdle muscle atrophy - Pelvic girdle muscle weakness - Proximal muscle weakness - Rimmed vacuoles - Scapular winging - Shoulder girdle muscle atrophy - Shoulder girdle muscle weakness - Temporal cortical atrophy - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
Source: 0003181.xml
