Topic: McKusick Kaufman syndrome
Question: What are the symptoms of McKusick Kaufman syndrome ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of McKusick Kaufman syndrome? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for McKusick Kaufman syndrome. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Cryptorchidism 50% Displacement of the external urethral meatus 50% Postaxial hand polydactyly 50% Urogenital sinus anomaly 50% Abnormality of the metacarpal bones 7.5% Aganglionic megacolon 7.5% Atria septal defect 7.5% Brachydactyly syndrome 7.5% Cleft palate 7.5% Cognitive impairment 7.5% Ectopic anus 7.5% Finger syndactyly 7.5% Hypoplastic left heart 7.5% Multicystic kidney dysplasia 7.5% Patent ductus arteriosus 7.5% Postaxial foot polydactyly 7.5% Renal hypoplasia/aplasia 7.5% Short stature 7.5% Tarsal synostosis 7.5% Tetralogy of Fallot 7.5% Urogenital fistula 7.5% Ventricular septal defect 7.5% Abnormality of cardiovascular system morphology - Anal atresia - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Congenital hip dislocation - Edema - Edema of the lower limbs - Hydrometrocolpos - Hydronephrosis - Hydroureter - Mesoaxial hand polydactyly - Polycystic kidney dysplasia - Pulmonary hypoplasia - Rectovaginal fistula - Syndactyly - Transverse vaginal septum - Vaginal atresia - Vesicovaginal fistula - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
Source: 0003849.xml
