Topic: Polycystic lipomembranous osteodysplasia with sclerosing leukoencephalopathy
Question: What are the symptoms of Polycystic lipomembranous osteodysplasia with sclerosing leukoencephalopathy ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Polycystic lipomembranous osteodysplasia with sclerosing leukoencephalopathy? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Polycystic lipomembranous osteodysplasia with sclerosing leukoencephalopathy. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of adipose tissue 90% Abnormality of epiphysis morphology 90% Arthralgia 90% Behavioral abnormality 90% Bone cyst 90% Bone pain 90% Cerebral cortical atrophy 90% Developmental regression 90% Limitation of joint mobility 90% Memory impairment 90% Reduced bone mineral density 90% Skeletal dysplasia 90% Ventriculomegaly 90% Agnosia 50% Cerebral calcification 50% Chorea 50% Hypertonia 50% Neurological speech impairment 50% Oculomotor apraxia 50% Seizures 50% Abnormality of the abdominal organs 7.5% Acute leukemia 7.5% Hydrocephalus 7.5% Abnormal upper motor neuron morphology - Abnormality of the foot - Abnormality of the hand - Aggressive behavior - Apraxia - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Axonal loss - Babinski sign - Basal ganglia calcification - Caudate atrophy - Cerebral atrophy - Disinhibition - EEG abnormality - Frontal lobe dementia - Gait disturbance - Gliosis - Hypoplasia of the corpus callosum - Lack of insight - Leukoencephalopathy - Myoclonus - Pathologic fracture - Peripheral demyelination - Personality changes - Primitive reflexes (palmomental, snout, glabellar) - Spasticity - Urinary incontinence - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
Source: 0004944.xml
