Topic: Mucopolysaccharidosis type VII
Question: What are the symptoms of Mucopolysaccharidosis type VII ?
Answer: What are the signs and symptoms of Mucopolysaccharidosis type VII? The Human Phenotype Ontology provides the following list of signs and symptoms for Mucopolysaccharidosis type VII. If the information is available, the table below includes how often the symptom is seen in people with this condition. You can use the MedlinePlus Medical Dictionary to look up the definitions for these medical terms. Signs and Symptoms Approximate number of patients (when available) Abnormality of the pleura 90% Ascites 90% Coarse facial features 90% Cognitive impairment 90% Lymphedema 90% Malar flattening 90% Opacification of the corneal stroma 90% Recurrent respiratory infections 90% Scoliosis 90% Short stature 90% Umbilical hernia 90% Abnormality of the hip bone 50% Abnormality of the liver 50% Epiphyseal stippling 50% Hydrops fetalis 50% Limitation of joint mobility 50% Muscular hypotonia 50% Splenomegaly 50% Talipes 50% Arteriovenous malformation 7.5% Enlarged thorax 7.5% Short neck 7.5% Abnormality of the heart valves - Acetabular dysplasia - Anterior beaking of lower thoracic vertebrae - Anterior beaking of lumbar vertebrae - Autosomal recessive inheritance - Corneal opacity - Dermatan sulfate excretion in urine - Dysostosis multiplex - Flexion contracture - Hearing impairment - Hepatomegaly - Hirsutism - Hydrocephalus - Hypoplasia of the odontoid process - Inguinal hernia - Intellectual disability - J-shaped sella turcica - Macrocephaly - Narrow greater sacrosciatic notches - Neurodegeneration - Pectus carinatum - Platyspondyly - Postnatal growth retardation - Proximal tapering of metacarpals - Thoracolumbar kyphosis - Urinary glycosaminoglycan excretion - The Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) has collected information on how often a sign or symptom occurs in a condition. Much of this information comes from Orphanet, a European rare disease database. The frequency of a sign or symptom is usually listed as a rough estimate of the percentage of patients who have that feature. The frequency may also be listed as a fraction. The first number of the fraction is how many people had the symptom, and the second number is the total number of people who were examined in one study. For example, a frequency of 25/25 means that in a study of 25 people all patients were found to have that symptom. Because these frequencies are based on a specific study, the fractions may be different if another group of patients are examined. Sometimes, no information on frequency is available. In these cases, the sign or symptom may be rare or common.
Source: 0004165.xml
